## Chapter 00: Setup

Let us start by executing the following commands to create our project (make sure you've navigated to the root of our workshop repository with your favourite terminal/commandline):

```shell
yarn create @vitejs/app . --template vue-ts
yarn
```

What this command does is initialise a Vue TypeScript project in our current directory with Vite as our build tool.
Vite (French word for "fast", pronounced /vit/) is a build tool that aims to provide a faster and leaner development experience for modern web projects.
In contrast to other build tools like Webpack, it leverages most of the building of our source code to the browser.
In Webpack, all your code needs to be bundled (coming from your node_modules and your own code) before the dev server can start.
In Vite, a minimal amount of the code is built during the start of the dev server.
After that, Vite focuses only on your own code to be built in the browser as to provide a smooth development experience.
You can learn more by reading at https://vitejs.dev/guide/why.html 

Starting your dev server can be done by:

```
yarn dev
```

If you want to use a more traditional build tool like webpack, you can always use the Vue CLI which was the default for Vue 2.
You can find more information about the Vue CLI on https://cli.vuejs.org/
But with the release of Vue 3, we will focus on Vite.

After initialising our Vue 3 project with Vite, we will also install Tailwind.
Tailwind is a CSS library that provides a bunch of utility CSS classes to allow for quick styling in the application.

```
yarn add -D tailwindcss@latest postcss@latest autoprefixer@latest
```

And after that we must create our Tailwind configuration files:

```
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

This will create a minimal tailwind.config.js file at the root of your project:

```ts
// tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
  purge: [],
  darkMode: false, // or 'media' or 'class'
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

Let's override the theme part with the Ordina colors:

```ts
module.exports = {
  purge: [],
  darkMode: false, // or 'media' or 'class'
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        primary: {
          100: "#ebf8ff",
          200: "#bee3f8",
          //ordina color
          300: "#E37C30",
          400: "#63b3ed",
          //ordina color
          500: "#E7904B",
          600: "#3182ce",
          //ordina color
          700: "#EAB285",
          800: "#2c5282",
          //ordina color
          900: "#F7D1A7",
        },
      },
    },
  },
  variants: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
};
```

Now that we've configured Tailwind, let's add it to our styling.
Create a file `/src/index.css` with the contents:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Which we'll then include into our `/src/main.ts` by adding in the imports of our file: 

```ts
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import "./index.css";

createApp(App).mount('#app')
```

Let's now clean up the generated files by Vue a bit.
You can remove the complete `/src/components` folder.
And the contents of `/src/App.vue` can be changed to:

```vue
<template>
  <h1 class="text-primary-500">Hello Bold!</h1>
</template>
```

Here we have the most basic component you can have in Vue: only HTML.
If you run the project with `yarn dev`, you should see an orange coloured text "Hello Bold!".
This means that our Tailwind configuration was succesful and that we've just created the very basics for our project.

> Exercise: feel free to check out https://tailwindcss.com/docs and play around with some of the Tailwind styles if you're not yet familiar with them.
