# Chapter 01: The first components: header and sidenav

## Creating new components: header and sidenav

### Creating header

Let's start with our first component, the header.
The header is a component that will be present on every page so we will be adding it to the `App` component.
But first let's start by creating a new file called `Header.vue` in the `components` folder.
In that file, we'll add the following code:

```vue
<template>
  <header class="flex items-center flex-wrap bg-primary-500 p-6">
    <button
      class="flex items-center px-3 py-2 border rounded text-teal-200 border-teal-400 hover:text-white hover:border-white"
    >
      <svg
        class="fill-current h-3 w-3"
        viewBox="0 0 20 20"
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
      >
        <title>Menu</title>
        <path d="M0 3h20v2H0V3zm0 6h20v2H0V9zm0 6h20v2H0v-2z" />
      </svg>
    </button>
    <h1 class="pl-3">Hello Bold!</h1>
  </header>
</template>
```

Let's explain the different parts a bit:

- we wrap everything in a `header` tag for semantic reasons
- the contents of the header is a button to activate our side navigation
- we add a title `Hello Bold!`

Now let's add it to our `App.vue` by replacing the contents with this:

```vue
<template>
  <Header />
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { defineComponent } from "vue";
import Header from "./components/Header.vue";

export default defineComponent({
  components: {
    Header,
  },
});
</script>
```

What we're doing here, is using the `script` tag to register the Header component.
We import the Header component and register it via the `components` option.
Each component that we register like that, can be used in our `template`.

### Creating sidenav

Create a new file `SideNav.vue` in the `components` folder with the following contents:

```vue
<template>
  <nav
    v-if="show"
    class="p-6 border-r border-black h-full flex-grow-0 flex-shrink-0"
  >
    <ul>
      <li v-for="item in items">
        {{ item }}
      </li>
    </ul>
  </nav>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { defineComponent } from "vue";

export default defineComponent({
  name: "SideNav",
  props: {
    show: Boolean,
  },
  data() {
    return {
      items: ["Clients", "Products"],
    };
  },
});
</script>
```

Here we already have a lot more going on.
First, we introduce `props` and `data` in the `script` tag.
Let's start with `data`.
As you can see, this is a function that returns an object.
This function is executed when the component is first created and that object will be available in our `template`.
Since we have `items` in that object, `items` will be available in our `template`.
If we were to add another object property, that too would become available to use.

You'll see in our `template` that we have `<li v-for="item in items">`.
With this line, we create a loop in our template.
The `v-for` is a directive that allows us to loop over an array.
The element on which it's placed, will be repeated for each element in the array.
So in our example, we have 2 elements in our `items`, thus the `li` tag will be repeated twice.
In each repetition, the content will be available in the `item` variable.
So the first time, `item = "Clients"` and the second time, `item = "Products"`.
By using double curly braces (often refered to as the Mustache syntax), we can inject the value of certain variables in our HTML.
We'll end up with 2 elements in our `ul` list.

A final element in our component, is the `props` element.
In that, we define what the different properties are that can be passed along to our custom component.
In our code, we define that we can have a `show` property that must be of type `Boolean`.
We use that `prop` in `v-if="show"`.
`v-if` is a directive that allows us to conditionally render the contents of the HTML tag on which it resides.
Because we have `v-if` on the `nav` tag, all its contents (and thus our list) will only be rendered if `show` is truthy.

We will now add both components to our `App` component.
So let's open up `App.vue` and adapt it like so:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="w-full h-screen flex flex-col">
    <Header class="w-full"></Header>
    <div class="flex flex-1">
      <div class="h-full float-left max-w-lg">
        <SideNav :show="true"></SideNav>
      </div>
      <div class="flex-1 p-2"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { defineComponent } from "vue";
import Header from "./components/Header.vue";
import SideNav from "./components/SideNav.vue";

export default defineComponent({
  name: "App",
  components: {
    Header,
    SideNav,
  },
});
</script>

```

You'll see that we import our components in the `script` tag.
We then add them to the `components` in our component.
After that we can use them in our `template`.

Let's first check out the `Header` tag.
We've added `class="w-full"` on this.
But how does this work?
Well, by default Vue adds extra attributes to the most encapsulating tag of our component.
In the case of our `Header` component, that will be the `header` HTML tag.
Vue is clever enough to mix it all.
So while we have `<header class="flex items-center flex-wrap bg-primary-500 p-6">` in our `Header` component, it will render `<header class="flex items-center flex-wrap bg-primary-500 p-6 w-full">` (`w-full` is added to our `class` attribute).
This allows you to have certain styling specific in the component while also having the chance to inject other styling that is more dependent of where the component is used.
For example if we were to reuse the `Header` component, we can omit the `w-full` class to avoid rendering a full width component.

In our `SideNav` tag, we have `:show="true"`.
By prefixing an attribute with a colon `:` we let Vue know that this will be a dynamic attribute.
Its value is a JavaScript expression that needs to be executed.
This can be a function, a referenc to a variable or a JavaScript value like a boolean.
Vue will bind the value to the comopnent property `show`, which is something we had defined in `props` in our `SideNav` component.
Note: `:show="true"` is actually a shorthand syntax for `v-bind:show="true"`.
Feel free to use the more verbose `v-bind:X="Y"` (where X is an attribute name and Y an expression) but we'll stick to the shorthand version.

Open your browser and you'll see the 2 components.
Feel free to change `:show="true"` to `:show="false"` to see that Vue will adapt the rendering by hiding the sidenav.
But we want that whenever we click on our little menu icon, the sidenav is toggled.
So let's add that functionality now.

## Working with events and custom events

What we basically want is that we somehow communicate from our `Header` that whenever a click occurs on our menu button, the `SideNav` should toggle.
Both compnents have the `App` component as a parent component, so we can actually let them communicate via the `App` component.

Let's start by listening to the `click` event on our menu button.
We can do this by adding `@click="X"` to the menu button.
X is going to be our event handler, our code that needs to be executed when the event is triggered.
Let's add this: `@click="$emit('toggleSideNav')"`.

Multiple things happen here: we define that whenever the click event is triggered, we will emit a `toggleSideNav` event.
This is a custom event that we define that we will have to capture in our parent component.
`$emit()` is a function available in our templates to emit an event.
Note: `@X="Y"` is also a shorthand version, in this case for `v-on:X="Y"`.
So we could write `v-on:click="$emit('toggleSideNav')"` but we'll stick to the more frequently used shorthand version.

We'll also add `emits: ["toggleSideNav"],` to our component.
With Vue3, this is a new comopnent option which is used to define ALL the events a component can emit, thus which events the parent component can listen to.

Our new full `Header` compnoent is this:

```
<template>
  <header class="flex items-center flex-wrap bg-primary-500 p-6">
    <button
      class="flex items-center px-3 py-2 border rounded text-teal-200 border-teal-400 hover:text-white hover:border-white"
      @click="$emit('toggleSideNav')"
    >
      <svg
        class="fill-current h-3 w-3"
        viewBox="0 0 20 20"
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
      >
        <title>Menu</title>
        <path d="M0 3h20v2H0V3zm0 6h20v2H0V9zm0 6h20v2H0v-2z" />
      </svg>
    </button>
    <h1 class="pl-3"></h1>
  </header>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
export default {
  name: "Header",
  emits: ["toggleSideNav"],
};
</script>
```

Ok so now we have the `Header` component that emits the `toggleSideNav` event but we still need to capture the `toggleSideNav` event and make the `SideNav` component listen to that event.
Since both `Header` and `SideNav` components are used in the `App` component, we can use that component as the bridge.
We've listened in the `Header` component to a native `click` event by using `@click` but this can also be used for custom events.
So we can add this to the `Header` tag: `@toggleSideNav="isMenuOpen = !isMenuOpen"`
And we can pass this new variable `isMenuOpen` to the `SideNav` component: `<SideNav :show="isMenuOpen"></SideNav>`.
Finish it off with adding `isMenuOpen: false` to the `data` portion of our component to ensure that the variable is correctly initialised.

Our full `App` component is now:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="w-full h-screen flex flex-col">
    <Header class="w-full" @toggleSideNav="isMenuOpen = !isMenuOpen"></Header>
    <div class="flex flex-1">
      <div class="h-full float-left max-w-lg">
        <SideNav :show="isMenuOpen"></SideNav>
      </div>
      <div class="flex-1 p-2"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { defineComponent } from "vue";
import Header from "./components/Header.vue";
import SideNav from "./components/SideNav.vue";

export default defineComponent({
  name: "App",
  components: {
    Header,
    SideNav,
  },
  data() {
    return {
      isMenuOpen: false,
    };
  },
});
</script>
```

## Animating the sidenav

We've done a lot in this chapter: created 2 components, rendering a list, have conditional rendering and basic communication between the components.
Let's finish it off by adding animation to the sidenav:

```vue
<template>
  <transition name="slide">
    <nav
      v-if="show"
      class="p-6 border-r border-black h-full flex-grow-0 flex-shrink-0"
    >
      <ul>
        <li v-for="item in items">
          {{ item }}
        </li>
      </ul>
    </nav>
  </transition>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: "SideNav",
  props: {
    show: Boolean,
  },
  data() {
    return {
      items: [
        "Clients",
        "Products",
      ],
    };
  },
};
</script>

<style lang="scss" scoped>
.slide-leave-active,
.slide-enter-active {
  transition: 0.4s;
}
.slide-enter-from,
.slide-leave-to {
  transform: translate(-100%, 0);
}
</style>
```

We've wrapped our `nav` tag with a `transition`, a Vue wrapper component to add animations to conditional rendering with `v-if`.
We pass along the name "slide" which is used for our CSS classes.
Basic Vue animations have a `from` and `to` state that craete a total of 6 animation classes:

- X-enter-from
- X-enter-to
- X-enter-active
- X-leave-from
- X-leave-to
- X-leave-active

We only use `X-leave-active`, `X-enter-active`, `X-enter-from` and `X-leave-to`.
With our CSS, we define that when leave and enter are active, we want to have a transition of 0.4s.
And with our CSS for `slide-enter-from` and `slide-leave-to`, we define our starting state when the `v-if` is true (and thus the sidenav should be shown) and when the `v-if` becomes false (and sidenave should be hidden).

Note: there are other scenarios where the `transition` wrapper component can be used. Find more examples at https://v3.vuejs.org/guide/transitions-overview.html
