# Chapter 02: Creating pages

In chapter 01 we've created our first components but our web app isn't worth something without pages.
In our usecase, we'll have 2 pages: clients and products.

Let's start with installing Vue Router:

```
yarn add vue-router@4
```

We'll create a `routes.ts` file in /src where we will bundle all configuration for our router:

```
import { createRouter, createWebHistory, RouteRecordRaw } from "vue-router";

const routes: RouteRecordRaw[] = [];

export const router = createRouter({
  history: createWebHistory(),
  routes,
});
```

What we do in this file is initialise Vue Router and give it an array of routes.
We'll fill in the array later.

And to activate it in our application, we'll have to add it to our global Vue instance:

```
import { createApp } from "vue";
import App from "./App.vue";
import { router } from "./routes";
import "./index.css";

createApp(App).use(router).mount("#app");
```

Ok so we now have a router, we have it initalised and we have added it to our global Vue instance.
We can now start with creating our pages, or as it is called in Vue, our `views`.
Create a folder called `/src/views`.
In this, we will place 1 component per page as a page is nothing more than a component, there is no special syntax.
In essence, any component can be a page.

## Creating our first page

Let's create the most basic component possible in `/src/views/Clients.vue`:

```
<template>
  <div>Clients</div>
</template>
```

We'll have to adapt the configuration of our Vue Router so that we define the page Clients and how it should be accessible.
Extend the routes array so it looks like this:

```
import Clients from "./views/Clients.vue";

const routes: RouteRecordRaw[] = [
  {
    path: "/clients",
    name: "clients",
    component: Clients,
  },
];
```

We give our route a name to easily reference it later and we add our newly created Clients component to the path `/clients`.
This means that if we are going to open `/clients` in our browser, we're going to see the Clients div.

But first we need to add `<router-view />` to our `App.vue` where the contents of the route shall be displayed.
Add `<router-view />` to the empty div after our SideNav:

```
<div class="flex-1 p-2"><router-view /></div>
```

If you now visit `http://localhost:3000/clients` (adapt the localhost port to what is actually used on your machine), you'll see the text "Clients".

Our first route works!

Later we'll add more routes for more pages.

## Adapting our SideNav component

Having to manually enter /clients in our URL would be tedious.
So let's activate our SideNav by adding an URL that we can click on to navigate to /clients.
We could add an `a`-tag to link to /clients natively.
But we can also use the Vue Router specific component `router-link`.

`router-link` is a tag that accepts a couple of arguments with the most important one `to`.
`to` is an object that contains information on which route to link to.
Remember that we added a name to our route?
We can now use that to our advantage by referencing to that name in our `to` object.
Elements such as parameters can be added too in the future.

Let's open up `SideNav.vue` and adapt our `li` tags to:

```
<li v-for="item in items">
  <router-link :to="item.to">{{ item.label }}</router-link>
</li>
```

and change the items data to:

```
items: [{ label: "Clients", to: { name: "clients" } }],
```

We've adapted each element in items to be an object containing a `label` and a `to` object.
And by passing an object `{ name: "clients" }` we link to the named route `clients`.

Since we have `name` on each route in our routes definition, those are called `named routes`.
We'll add more routes in the future.

## Defaulting to a certain URL

If we now open our application at the root URL, we will have an empty page.
No page is opened since the only defined route is to the /clients path.
We can add a "fallback" route by adding one to "/" and redirecting that to "/clients".

Add the following snippet to the routes definition:

```
{ path: "/", redirect: "/clients" },
```

If you now open the application, you should instantly be redirected to /clients.