# Chapter 07: Creating an action menu with slots and a directive

The goal is to have an action menu for each entry in our `ClientsTable` that allows us to edit or delete a row from the table.
I.e. edit a client and delete a client.

## Creating the ActionMenu component

Let's create an `ActionMenu` component in /src/components:

```html
<template>
  <button type="button" @click="isMenuOpened = !isMenuOpened">
    Actions
    <span aria-hidden="true">▾</span>
  </button>
  <div
    v-if="isMenuOpened"
    class="absolute flex flex-col items-start border p-2 gap-2 bg-white"
  >
    <slot />
  </div>
</template>
<script lang="ts">
import { defineComponent } from "vue";

export default defineComponent({
  data() {
    return {
      isMenuOpened: false,
    };
  },
});
</script>
```

The component is super basic, we have a button that when we click on it, a small box is opened containing the contents of the action menu.

You'll see we use `<slot />`.
This is the `slot` tag, a way to inject HTML from the parent component into our component.
So for example if we were to add this to a component:

```html
<action-menu>
	<button>Action 1</button>
	<button>Action 2</button>
	<button>Action 3</button>
</action-menu>
```

Then we would have those 3 buttons put at the spot of `<slot />`.

## Using defaults

But what would happen if we do not fill someting in?
If we jsut do `<action-menu />`?

We can introduce some fallback HTML that Vue uses if a slot is essentially empty.
Instead of having `<slot />` inside ActionMenu, we can have this:

```html
<slot><button @click="closeMenu">Close</button></slot>
```

We've also added:

```ts
methods: {
  closeMenu() {
    this.isMenuOpened = false;
  },
},
```

Now you'll see that the ActionMenu is filled in with a Close button when clicked upon, closes the ActionMenu.
Don't forget to import and register the component in ClientsTable.

## Adding our actual action menu

Let's adapt the `ClientsTable` by adding an action menu by replacing the "Actions" word with:

```html
<action-menu>
  <button type="button">Edit</button>
  <button type="button">Delete</button>
</action-menu>
```

In future chapters we'll add actual functionality to the action menu.
