# Chapter 08: Using a directive to add click away functionality

If you now open the actionmenu, it won't close automatically when clicking outside of it.
To do this, we'll add some code that listens to clicks outside of the opened actionmenu to check if it is time to close it.
For this, we'll use a custom directive.
Vue features like `v-show`, `v-model` are examples of directives.
They are a declarative syntax to add functionality to certain HTML elements.

We're going to create our own directive so that we can easily add `v-click-outside="closeMenu"` on our action menu.

Let's create the directive in `/src/directives/click-outside.ts`:

```
import { Directive } from "vue";

export const clickOutside: Directive = {
  beforeMount(el, binding) {
    el.clickOutsideEvent = function (event: Event) {
      if (!(el === event.target || el.contains(event.target))) {
        binding.value(event, el);
      }
    };
    document.body.addEventListener("click", el.clickOutsideEvent);
  },
  unmounted(el) {
    document.body.removeEventListener("click", el.clickOutsideEvent);
  },
};
```

Some explanation: we add and remove a click event listener on the body.
We also add a method that needs to be called when the click is triggered.
This is the small `el.clickOutsideEvent...` function that you see in the `beforeMount`.
We simply check if the click event is meant for us or not, essentially checking if the click happens on the element on which we are going to add our `v-click-outside` directive.

If this is not the case, then we call the value of our directive, i.e. the method `closeMenu` if we were to add `v-click-outside="closeMenu"` on the ActionMenu.

And we also need to register our v-click-outside directive, this works the same as with components:

```
directives: {
  clickOutside,
},
```

Don't forget to import it:

```
import { clickOutside } from "../directives/click-outside";
```

And then it's a matter of actually using the directive by wrapping our ActionMenu with:

```
<div v-click-outside="closeMenu">
  <!-- contents of the ActionMenu template -->
</div>
```

Launch the webserver and check if your actionmenu closes whenever you click outside it such as somewhere else on the page or on a different ActionMenu, ...
