# Chapter 09: Editing a Client

Remember the `ClientForm` that we created in one of the earlier chapters?
Let's now reuse it to create a form that allows us to edit a client.

Start with creating the `EditClient` page, don't forget to add it to the router.

Our HTML is going to be almost exactly the same as for the `CreateClient` page:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="pl-6 pr-6 divide-y divide-gray-400">
    <div class="relative" data-testid="page-header">
      <h1 class="pt-6 pb-6 text-xl">Edit client</h1>
      <div class="absolute top-0 right-0"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="pt-6">
      <client-form
        :client="client"
        @submit="editClient"
        @cancel="returnToClients"
      ></client-form>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

As you can see, we use the same `ClientForm` where we reuse the `client` prop and the `submit` and `cancel` event handlers.

The contents of the component can be almost exactly the same with some adaptations.
Feel free to copypaste the contents of the `CreateClient` script tag as our new script tag in `EditClient`.

We'll need to adapt the following things:

- name of our component by changing "CreateClient" to "EditClient"
- remove the "createClient" method and add as its replacement:

```ts
editClient(client: Client): Promise<Response> {
  return fetch(
    `https://base-app-backend.herokuapp.com/clients/${this.$props.id}`,
    {
      method: "PUT",
      headers: {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
      },
      body: JSON.stringify(client),
    }
  ).then(this.returnToClients);
},
```

What more do we need?
We need to have a way to fill in the form with the existing client that we're trying to edit and we also need a way to open the form.
To get this information on which client to edit, we'll take its ID from the URL.
Our URL will be: `/clients/ID/edit` where ID = a number.
But your keen eye might have already seen we use `this.$props.id` in the URL in our `editClient` method.
We'll instruct Vue Router to fill in the ID from the URL into an id prop that we can use in our component.
To do this, we'll define the prop on `EditClient`:

```ts
props: {
  id: {
    type: Number,
    required: true,
  },
},
```

It's time to adapt our router so that we can make the page accessible, add to the routes array definition:

```ts
{
  path: "/clients/:id/edit",
  name: "editClient",
  component: EditClient,
  props: (route: RouteLocationNormalized) => ({ id: +route.params.id }),
},
```

Don't forget to add `RouteLocationNormalized` to the import of "vue-router".
With props in that route definition, we can give a function to Vue Router that needs to be executed everytime someone tries to access that URL.
Essentially, we take the id variable (noted as `:id` in the path) and transform it to a number.
So if our URL would be /clients/5/edit, we would have id = 5
The props function gives back the object that will be used to fill in our component props.

To make the edit client form accessible, we need a way to open the `EditClient` page.

Adapt the action menu by adding a `click` event handler to the `Edit` button in `ClientsTable`:

```html
<button type="button" @click="$emit('edit:client', client.id)">Edit</button>
```

We define that when we click on the Edit button of our ActionMenu, that we will emit the event "edit:client" along with the client ID.
Feel free to annotate that change to `ClientsTable`:

```ts
emits: ["edit:client"],
```

So ClienstTable emits the "edit:client" event but we need to handle it in its parent component: `Clients`.
Capture the event in the `Clients` page by adapting the `<clients-table />` tag:

```html
<ClientsTable :clients="clients" @edit:client="editClient"></ClientsTable>
```

And add the `editClient` method to `Clients`:

```ts
editClient(id) {
  this.$router.push({
    name: "editClient",
    params: { id },
  });
},
```

If you now click on the Edit button in an action menu, you'll see the form open.

We're almost there, we just need to add functionality to load a client.
Add the following to the `EditClient` component: 

```ts
created() {
  fetch(`https://base-app-backend.herokuapp.com/clients/${this.$props.id}`)
    .then((response) => response.json())
    .then((client) => (this.client = client));
},
```

You'll now see that we load the client!
Try editing some values and submitting them, you'll see that:

* the values are saved
* the validation on firstname and lastname can be triggered
* you're redirected to /clients upon Submit or Cancel

That's because we reused the ClientForm almost completely.