# Chapter 14: Use a page as a modal

Congratulations, you've now built the whole products functionality!

Let's add something fun to top it all of!
We're going to build a modal in which we are going to add the EditProduct page while having the Products open in the background.
And we can achieve that without having to adapt the `EditProduct` comoponent itself!

We'll need to do 2 changes:

- Adapt the route to `EditProduct` so it knows it needs to render as a modal
- Add a spot to render the modal

Let's look at the route first.
Currently you'll have something like:

```ts
{
  path: "/products/:id/edit",
  name: "editProduct",
  component: EditProduct,
  props: (route: RouteLocationNormalized) => ({ id: route.params.id }),
},
```

We adapt it to this:

```ts
{
  path: "/products/:id/edit",
  name: "editProduct",
  components: {
    modal: EditProduct,
    default: Products,
  },
  props: {
    modal: (route: RouteLocationNormalized) => ({ id: route.params.id }),
  },
},
```

As you might notice, the `comoponent` is changed to `components` object with 2 members in it.
These are our own members that we chose.
We've also had to change the `props` to align it with the `components` object. 
We omit the `default` in `props` as there are no props to be passed along for the `Products` page.

Next change we need to do is in our `App` component.
Remember `<router-view />`?
Well it's time to add one specifically for the modal, so we end up with: 

```html
<router-view />
<router-view name="modal" v-slot="{ Component }">
  <div
    v-if="Component"
    class="
      modal h-screen w-full fixed left-0 top-0
      flex justify-center items-center bg-black bg-opacity-50
    "
  >
    <div class="bg-white rounded shadow-lg w-1/2 pb-4">
      <component :is="Component" />
    </div>
  </div>
</router-view>
```

So we have 2 router-views noww, with one being filled in by `default` (the one without `name`) and one by `modal`.
These are actually `named views`.

We use `v-slot` which is one of the features of Vue slots.
It's used to define the data that's being passed along to a certain named view in this situation.
`router-view` gets all kinds of data from the router, which is by default used to render in the spot of `<router-view />`.
But if we provide content between the `<router-view>` open and close-tag, it will (such as with slots) render that instead of the default one.
The use of `v-slot` helps capture the data that would be rendered.
Thus we can wrap it all in a modal if a `Component` is passed along.
This `Component` is then rendered via the use of the `component` tag, which is used for `dynamic components` in Vue.
The extra `v-if` helps us to avoid rendering an empty modal if no `Component` would be available.

Check it out in your browser how ou can now start editing products in the modal.

And congratulations for reaching the end of the course!